All right. Hi, everyone. Thank you for getting up early.
Can we all move closer and not maybe be-- If you don't
mind, just because it's a small crowd.
But we appreciate all of you for recognizing how important
communication is in what you're doing.
My name's Kristen Dahlgren.
I'm the chair of this, I guess.
And
I always
get the question of why is a journalist here with us
trying to cure cancer? Hey.
And I think
I wish that your
work was just what you're doing in the lab,
and that would then get to patients.
Unfortunately, a big part of it is making sure you have
funding, and making sure people are interested, and making sure
people sign up for trials. And so there is a
big part of it that's communication.
So there we go. Is this how I advance it? Where am I?
Okay.
So we decided to call this From Bench to Buzz because we
really do need that translation from what you're doing in
labs and making sure that people know about it.
And so while it is not brain surgery, it is important, but
we're also going to have some fun this morning.
So like I said, my name's Kristen Dahlgren.
I'm a former NBC correspondent. I'm also the Chief
External Affairs Officer at the Parker Institute for Cancer Immunotherapy
now, as of this week, and I am a breast cancer survivor.
So we laid this out like an anatomy lesson, trying to hit the different
things. I'm going to talk about finding the heart in what you're doing,
and then we've got Dr. Jay Gardner, who's an assistant professor at
Tufts and a cancer researcher, so she's kind of our
legit scientist representative.
But she's also the founder of JKX Comics, and so
she has found this incredible way
to take science and make it fun and interesting and
exciting for people.
And then my dear friend, Sarin Rothberg,
who doesn't have a cheese on her head today,
is the founder-
I know.
Oh, okay.
Or for San Diego, we could've put something on.
But Sarin's founder and CEO, creative director, and the
host of Beating Cancer Daily. If you haven't
listened yet, it's an amazing
and fun journey through cancer for patients,
and
she is also a Stage IV cancer survivor.
She is a unicorn. How many years is it now?
It's my real hair.
It's 33 years since I misdiagnosed.
Can you do the mic, Sarin? Sorry.
Thirty-three-
No, don't. Yeah, go ahead.
This one?
The one down. Okay.
I told you, we're not used to doing this.
33 since I was misdiagnosed, six years
misdiagnosed, and then I went for two and a half years of
intense treatment, four hospitals, because it was
triple-negative, decades before triple-negative was talked
about. And then,
told to get my affairs in order, and it took me 18
months, and I reinvented my immune system, thank God, and I've been
cancer-free for 23 years.
So she brings
that
longtime patient perspective. But she also used to be a booker for D**k
Clark, and she booked comedians, so
she makes everything she does fun.
And while cancer is not fun,
somehow she finds the ability to really
find just
the way to talk about it in a way that's
fun and exciting and helpful, and that's our goal.
We want this to be really interactive.
So I know you're used to listening to us and then getting up and making a line.
Sarin has a microphone. She's probably going to come down with you, but also feel
free at any point to grab a microphone and ask us questions
because this is all about how we can help you.
So please feel free to make this as
interactive as possible.
So
why is communications important?
Well, obviously, even the most brilliant science is invisible if people don't know
about it. Speaking as
a patient and survivor myself,
I do read as a journalist. I am one of those ones
who goes in and looks at scientific papers and reads them.
I don't always understand everything, but generally,
patients don't want to read through those really dense scientific
papers. So if you're able to talk about it in a
way that makes it understandable to them,
it really helps both the patients, and then it helps with
philanthropists and nonprofits and people who might be funding your research, which
we all know right now is really important to look maybe
outside of those traditional pathways that people were using to
fund research. So can't fund what you don't know about, and that was
a big, big thing in my setting up the
Cancer Vaccine Coalition,
and now going to the Parker Institute, was how do we get the word
out about this incredible moment in history where we
have all of this research going on, we have better understanding
of how we can target cancer and ultimately,
lead, I believe, to a cancer-free future.
So we've got to talk about it in ways that people understand.So
real quick, my story.
This is just the past two years, but I'll go back a little bit further for that
first picture.
That is me without my hair extensions.
In
2019, I was diagnosed with breast cancer.
I continued working as a correspondent for
NBC through my cancer. I shared my story because I thought it would help
people. I had had a mammogram in May of 2019 that was completely
clear. In September of 2019, I noticed a dent in my breast,
and I knew it was something that I needed to get checked out.
If I had not done a story for "Nightly News" a few years before with the Mayo
Clinic that said one in six women doesn't present with a lump, I
may not have gotten that checked out.
So again, that was a news story that led me to knowing
what to look for, and ultimately, I believe, saved my life.
So when I was looking at
other stories that I could do for NBC on cancer, I came across the
idea that cancer vaccines were in development.
And I was like, "What are you talking about?
That's not a real thing."
And the scientists were like, "No, really, we've been working on this for
quite some time." But I had never heard about it.
I said, "Why is this not front-page news?
You're telling me that you can give me something that will boost my immune
system,
and for the rest of my life, potentially, be looking
for, and knowing what to look for, and targeting my cancer if, God forbid, it
ever came back. That should be something that we're leaning into.
What's the issue?" And so
they laid out three things for me. It was, people don't know about it.
We don't have funding.
And what's the third? Chemo brain.
We don't know about it, we don't have funding, and we're not working together.
We're in our silos. So again, if more people knew
what was out there,
we could maybe bring them together.
And so that's why I formed the Cancer Vaccine Coalition.
I was lucky.
The "People" magazine picture is me and my childhood best friend, who I had
lost touch with. She
saw my "Today" show
thing. Other people who were in her network saw it,
and we ultimately reconnected, and her family
ended up donating $2 million to get us off the ground.
So that was directly because I went on TV
and said, "This is what I'm doing. This is why I'm doing it.
This is the science." And it led to that funding, which ultimately
then led to our first giant check going out,
which was a huge moment.
And since then now,
we've seen the National Cancer Vaccine Roadmap get
presented to the National Cancer Advisory Board last month, and a
$200 million public-private partnership launched.
That committee is working on cancer vaccines at the
direction of the NCI director and moving
cancer vaccines and that research towards patients.
Thank you.
That really is that snowball effect, when people know when you're
communicating about your science.
And then just this week, we announced that CVC had merged with the
Parker Institute for Cancer Immunotherapy, another huge
step.
And they had reached out to me after seeing the article on the "Today" show, and
then we've been communicating and having meetings over the past two years.
And so ultimately, it led to this really powerful
partnership for cancer vaccines and cancer patients.
So that's just an idea of what you can do if you're communicating.
So
I'm here to talk about finding the heart, finding the
emotion in what you're doing.
Who cares? Honestly, that is the first question
you need to ask yourself. Who cares about
this research that I'm doing? Who does it help?
How can somebody relate to the story?
We know that one in two of us, or almost one in two of us, is going
to be diagnosed with cancer in our lifetime. You have a captive audience.
The rest of the people will love someone who's diagnosed with cancer.
Everybody is impacted by this disease.
And so that's who cares. Find how you can get
them to connect to what you're doing and how you can explain to them
how your research will ultimately help them or
someone they love.
And then in any story, where is the smile,
the hope? How can you have people read something or
see something on TV and be left with that,
"Wow, that's really exciting." Or
sometimes it's that gut punch.
We all know that a cancer diagnosis hits you hard, and it makes
you feel something. And when you or someone you love is diagnosed with it,
sometimes people need to feel that emotion, but you want them to walk
away from reading that article, seeing that story,
with some emotion. They have to feel it if they
are going to help you in it.
So I'm going to play a couple of examples.
This first one
is
actually a wildfire story, so it has nothing to do with
cancer.
But for me, it's an example of how you look at something.
There was a wildfire in California, and people's
homes were being destroyed, and there was this huge economic impact, and we
had covered day after day of this horrible
tragedy. And so they sent me out. I'm out in the
woods looking for some way to tell this story, to
get people to continue to care. And so this is
what I came up with. It kind of unfolded, but it's what I decided
to s-Hone in on
after that day of being out in the woods and seeing all of this tragedy.
God.
This was Gary and Sally Dykstra's dream house, built with their
own hands.
Nothing. Melted down to nothing.
Some ceramics and a page out of a children's book.
We don't have anything of our kids when they were babies.
All that was left after 20 years here.
It's all in there. We lost everything.
At least they thought they did.
Gary, they might have found Precious.
As the fire raced closer last Monday, the Dykstras were given just 10
minutes to flee. In the chaos, their cat, Precious, ran
away. More than a week later, their house and the woods
completely charred, a utility worker spotted her.
She's hiding in that hole right there. She's scared to death.
Scared and singed.
Look at you.
But incredibly,
alive.
Her feet are burned.
Too weak to move, we helped her get out.
And after some much needed water, offered to take her down to the vet.
Did you ever think you'd see her again?
No.
A couple who thought they lost everything, and found
what was most precious. Can you believe it?
Oh. How wonderful.
Kristin Dahlgren, NBC News, Pollock Pines, California.
Boy, bless you.
So that's not really a story about
the wildfire, because not all of us
are going to be, luckily, in a place where our homes are going to get burned.
But it starts with that, wow, all that's left is a children's
book. They're grandparents, and they're like us because they
have grandchildren and family. And then an
animal lover who's across the country in Newark,
New Jersey, can see that and really feel like, "Oh my gosh, can
you imagine if that happened to my cat
or to my home?" And so,
it might seem like a silly thing to focus on.
And we got some statistics about the fire in there, but really it was to get
people to care.
And so I believe that's an important part of communicating what you're
doing, is to really get people who may not
be your patients directly, but why does
this impact me? And so look for those moments, look for those
stories, look for a way to tell that.
God.
Oh gosh. We don't need to see you again. There you go.
Then find the patient.
So find the patient that this helps.
Who's your main character? When I was assigned something, I would go in in the
morning,
and the nightly news team would say, "Well, we want you to do this today." And
the first question that they would ask is, "Who's your
character? Who are you going to tell this story?
Whose eyes are you going to tell it through?"
And we would always, if it was a medical story, call up the
researcher, call up the drug company, "Can you get us a patient?"
Because if you're talking so high level
and it doesn't feel, in somebody's living room, like it could be
them or someone they love, it's just going to go right over their head.
And so you really want to find the patient.
And then you want to know who are they beyond a patient.
Patients are just like us. I don't know if you've seen those old
stars, they're just like us. But patients are just like us. They have cats.
They have grandchildren. Whatever it is,
how do we find a way to make them relatable?
So here's another example of how we did that.
We're back now with a potential medical breakthrough giving new hope to people
with blindness. A study just out on an experimental surgery to
restore vision to one damaged eye with stem cells from the
other. Kristin Dahlgren explains.
Clear to land. 2-2-5, clear to land.
Nick Carufé always dreamed of being a pilot.
I figured that would be the perfect career path for me.
And he was well on his way, until a freak accident on July
4th, 2020, near his home in California.
We were watching the fireworks. Instead of shooting up in the air, it exploded on
the floor. I unfortunately took a direct hit to my left eye, dead
center.
The eye blinded.
I thought my life was done. I didn't really know if it was going to ever get
better.
Until he heard about a completely new procedure being done at Mass Eye and
Ear.
It looks very good.
Dr. Ula Jurkunas and her team pioneered a procedure they
call CALLIC, using stem cells to restore the cornea in the
damaged eye of patients with severe injuries.
It is possible to take a small biopsy of these stem cells,
grow them in the laboratory, and then transplant them onto the
patient's eye, taking it from healthy eye to the
diseased eye.
In a phase one study of the first four patients, all saw marked
improvement. Two saw significantly better without
additional treatment, and the other two were able to go on to get
artificial corneas.
Look a little bit up
and down.
Nick moved to Boston and is now one of a new group of patients
receiving the surgery. At what point did you realize it had
worked?
Not too long after the first surgery, I was able to see.
It was this whole thing, and I was crying.
While still in its early stages, doctors consider this a stepping
stone and say stem cell therapies may someday go beyond
corneal injuries to things like glaucoma, maybe even other
parts of the body.
Nick is now flying again for fun.
Especially to see even just the blue sky out of the left side is so
crazy because I never thought I would ever see that ever again.
For the first time in a long time, seeing hope.
So again, most of us are not going to luckily have an eye
injury that leaves us blind, but
we like to look at the blue sky and he's a pilot and he's a
young man. And so finding the patient to be
a part of telling that
... story and that procedure and what they're doing was so important in making
it understandable to people. And so I encourage you
always figure out who it helps, and then make them
relatable.
And then finally, find your empathy.
So
think of how would I feel in this situation?
What would I want my mom, my kid to know about it?
And then the last thing I'll say for now is, you don't have to
share everything. So I was going to play one more video, and then I didn't
want to call anyone out
publicly. But I used to do stories on the most expensive drug in the
world.
And so at one point, there was a new therapy,
and it cost $850,000
per patient. And so I was sent to talk to the CEO of the
company, and I asked him, "How do you justify that
price tag?"
And there's a lot of answers that he could have given,
and he said,
"Well,
we calculated
how much is your eyesight worth?"
And I was kind of shocked at the time that he said that, because
obviously, our eyesight is worth a lot.
But it kind of leaves a bad taste in your mouth to think, gosh, they're
pricing something on how much I would pay.
And he cited, like, "Well, in a lawsuit, if somebody loses their
eye, they could get millions of dollars for it."
So
you also can think about how
just to come off as human in what you're doing.
And it's not trying to hide
your calculation process, but maybe it was research and development cost a lot
or something like that. Because journalists are not
looking as much as people think. They're not looking for that gotcha moment.
They're not looking to make you look bad.
If somebody's coming out and wants to talk about your research, it's because of the
hope.
And so I think giving them
those more hopeful stories and really
always being a human yourself and having empathy towards the patients
and towards what we're trying to communicate is really important.
So that's the end for now. I'm happy to take any questions
as we go along. Again, please jump up, raise your hand.
Later, we're going to find out what you want to be
communicating and how we can help you.
But next, we'll have Dr. Gardner come up and talk about how
she looks at translating science into something understandable.
Could you give a
Cool.
No, it's because-
I know.
... of the session.
Hello, everyone.
Good morning. Thank you so much for being here.
It's really early, and you're coming from a lot of different places.
Might be jet lagged, might be just wanting to be in bed instead.
I understand that. So I'm greatly appreciative that all of you are here.
So like Kristen Dahlgren mentioned, I am an assistant professor
at Tufts University.
And I do a lot of work in terms of taking the science that
I do and communicating in ways that other individuals will be able
to understand and process that. So I kind of want to share a little bit of
that method. We mentioned about this being interactive.
I'm going to ask you to give me words.
And so there's at tops 11 words that I need, so if just
one person says a word each, only 11 people have to
speak at all. So that's my
preemptive plea there. Okay, but to get us
started, so who am I? How did I get here?
So here is the blue scale version of the same
image that Kristen showed earlier. But my name is Jay Gardner.
I use the she series of pronouns. Officially, my title is
assistant professor, but I also consider being a science
communicator and illustrator a very important part of the
work that I do. But importantly, in case you all are going
to freak out and think I'm going to make you draw, I'm not.
But also importantly, I have no formal training in art.
So this is a map showing
roughly my career history. So I'm originally from Chicago.
This is basically my heavy STEM coursework when I was in high
school. I went to Minnesota, majored in bio, nearly
triple minored in classes. The last one was an audit for Japanese.
Went and got my PhD in cancer biology at the University of
Wisconsin-Madison, and then did my postdoc at the Fox Chase
Cancer Center on pancreatic cancer tumor microenvironment before moving on
to my faculty position that I just started in September.
So nowhere in this process is there art, so I want to
embolden you that that means that you can do this, too.
But while I was in grad school, this is where my
colleagues, so Dr. Qua Tran and Dr. Kelly Montgomery...
We weren't doctors then. We were grad students.
But we had this idea of trying to translate
science into a way that is much more easily
communicable. So no matter what your field is, and the three of us are in
very different fields, there's a lot of jargon that's in the
science that we do, especially when we communicate within fields.
And so that poses a barrier for people to understand the work
that we're actually doing. And then there's also the paywall aspect.
So we pay money to submit the journal, and then you have to
pay for the journal to access the science that you even did.
But we're at institutions that pay for those journal subscriptions.
But the layperson that wants to know what's happening actually doesn't
have access to any of that information.
And even if they did and paid for it-The language is still a
barrier. So we thought comics would be a very exciting
way to try and break down both of those barriers.
One, making it free and accessible on our website, but also just
translating that language into something that everyone could understand.
So with that,
just to reemphasize why we're doing comics, so these are two examples of
what I've done before. So here on the left, if anyone has or
plays video games or enjoys video games, Jerry Lawson is the reason why we
have that. So this is just two panels from a comic that I
did about his work. He was actually an air conditioning
technician, and he just had the idea, because
around that time Intel made the microchip, to combine that with the
arcade
games that you can see. And so he actually built this in his own garage,
basically the prototype for the first video game cartridge.
And so something that comics do that's incredibly powerful is bringing that
character back in. So we're not in these silos.
We're not the lone wolves, the Einsteins that are there going, "Aha," by
ourselves in the basement. There's actually people behind this work.
There's people that impact this, and bringing that visual
aspect that comics can provide can also help relay that information
more, echoing what Kristen had just said.
And on the right-hand side, Marie Van Brittan Brown.
So she is actually the reason why if you like being on
TikTok or seeing the videos of people with their Ring cameras, she created
the first closed circuit television.
And so she was a nurse in the Bronx. She had an opposite schedule to her
husband, and so in order to feel safe, she actually invented a way to have a
camera at her door that she could see from the back of her bedroom who was
approaching. And so these are just two examples of how we can actually
see the variety of people that are doing this work and why I'm so
passionate about it.
Okay, so in terms of us and how we can translate our
science,
I broke it down into two aspects. So one, creating the narrative, and then the
other one is the image parts, because both of these kind of come together in terms
of creating a comic. So for creating a narrative,
I thought we could play a game. So if you all remember from your
childhood, Mad Libs, you would have something like
this, where it's a list of words that we needed to create a story.
This is where I need at least 11 of you to say one word to me.
And then we fill it in, so you could be creative about your answer.
It'll make the story goofier. And then we fill in the blanks, read the
story, and hopefully we'll have a good time.
So for the list of words, in case you don't remember your parts
of speech, I have this up here for you with some easy
examples to kind of get your brains going, because it is very early in the morning.
But so I'm just going to ask for a series of words.
So can someone give me an adjective?
I'm going to do it on the mic just so that it's recorded.
Cool.
All right. Excited.
Excited.
A noun.
Orange.
That's going to be very interesting. Okay. Another noun.
Elephant.
Nice. Go Jumbos. That's my school mascot.
A science technique.
Anyone here?
CRISPR.
CRISPR. Okay.
Another noun.
Dog.
An adverb.
No?
Adverb.
Who's got an adverb?
Swiftly.
This is very funny.
A biological process.
I know that's not a regular part of speech.
Sweating?
Sweating. Okay. Yeah.
I usually play this with my nine-year-old, and she would definitely say farting.
I asked one of my friends, so that there's less words that I'm asking you all, I
asked some friends for filler words.
Some of you said the exact same word, which is why it's funny to me, but my friend
that has a two-year-old, her first words were poop and fart, and she's like, "Yep,
I have a two-year-old son."
Okay. A number.
Two.
A verb.
You thought you would hide in the back, didn't you?
Laugh.
And lastly, our favorite thing to talk about in science, a synonym for
new.
Running over here because all of these people thought that they would hide over
here.
It's the last one.
Okay.
Fresh?
Fresh.
That's a good one.
I could've sworn it would've been novel.
Okay, so let's go to our story.
Cells can be changed into oranges, so this was a filler word, which is funny.
A phenomenon that can alter the world as we know it.
However, this process is very excited, thus
making difficult to be applied universally.
We found that a combination of oranges and
elephants can greatly crisp-- Oh, I missed a verb.
Can someone quickly give me a verb?
Strangle.
Str-
Laugh.
What was it?
We had laugh at the end. Let's do a different one.
Strangle.
Strangle. Okay.
Yeah, so apparently now oranges and elephants can greatly strangle
the process.
So using CRISPR, we determined that oranges affect
oxidative phosphorylation by decreasing dogs.
Swiftly, we found that
elephants work through sweating by increasing it two
times.Collectively, however, we found that
oranges and elephants work together by laughing
swiftly. Ah
to laugh the swiftly network
leading to... Where's my verb one?
To strangled reprogramming.
Thus, the application of oranges and elephants to reprogramming
is fresh and can be applied to world hunger.
Okay. So that is our mad lib. And together--
So first, special thanks to my colleague, Qua Tran.
So this is actually based off of his abstract that
I converted into a mad lib. So if you actually want to research that science,
it's not about
cancer at all. He did cellular reprogramming when we were in grad school, so
that's what his work is on. But collectively, we just made
a story that's actually based in science.
So how did we do this? What was the scaffold in order to make
this mad lib? So how many of you have heard of
or watched Pixar movies?
A lot of you, right? Do you feel like that
emotion, that empathy, that gut punch, a lot of the things that Kristen just
talked about? So they actually kind of have a formula for the movies that
they do, and I'm really just taking that and applying it to science.
So they kind of have a series of steps that we'll go through now.
So the first one is once upon a time, and this is just the basic
setup. So thinking about the world that you want to tell
for your narrative, so what your subject is, what's
known, what's the baseline? You kind of already write this as the background for
the science that you're doing.
The next step is and every day, and so this is what's showing what the
problem is and why does it matter. So those same things that Kristen said is
important for kind of talking about and hooking people into your science is the
same thing that you can do for this narrative.
Third step is until finally. So if you remember your English
lessons, this would be called the inciting incident.
So this is something that happens that changes the status
quo. So if we're thinking about this in the realm of science, this is
either you made that observation, you found that question to
help answer the problem. It's the thing that you're going after
experimentally or that you observe in the clinic that you actually want
to dig in deeper.
After that, it's and then, so this is a reaction, the natural consequence to
step three. So if you just made that observation, now you want to do
something about it, this is probably the first experiment that you designed.
And then you can have more and thens, really as many as necessary, and these are
just continued consequences of the thing that was done before or that
if the character is you that you tried before.
So you tried doing experiment A, you got a result, led to
a new observation, that led to experiment B, et cetera.
So now we've kind of hit the climax.
So this is the peak of the movie or your narrative.
Here, if you're thinking about it in terms of the publications, that would probably
be your key figure. So the thing that really summarizes what your
paper is about, that's the climax of your story.
And then lastly, you have your falling action.
So this is direct contrast to and every day, which is and ever
since that day. And you could think of this like your discussion.
So now that you've made this discovery, how has the field
changed because of the results that you did?
So you set up that problem in number two, and then now this is how things are
changing because of the work that you did.
Okay. So that's kind of my pitch for thinking about how
I translate my science into storytelling.
But the other aspect of it is thinking about the art side, because comics
is really more than the sum of its parts.
And so in terms of using images to convey meaning, I'll do an
abbreviated lesson. If you want to read more about it, there
was an article put up called, "10 Simple Rules for
Drawing Science Comics." This was when there was a whole push of a lot of 10
simple rule type articles. But this one, I think, is very
accessible, if you're curious about dabbling
into the creative arts. Okay. So my three
points for you all to take away is, one, that you don't have to be good at art.
I hopefully already illustrated that, pun intended, when I told you
that I have no formal art in my background.
Second is that you can use metaphors and character in order to
increase engagement. And the third is that
same idea that we're building on, so using story, but kind of keeping it
simple. So the idea is to have it so that other people can
understand what you're doing. So you probably don't want to put in all of the
details. You don't want to talk about every failed experiment that you had along
the way. You're also not writing about that when you publish your papers either.
So you don't necessarily need to have all of those details here.
So in terms of you don't have to be good at art, here's a very simple example.
I'm drawing, or here the example is drawing two things, thing A and thing
B. They're circles. You could tell that they're different things because they're
different sizes. The circle doesn't have to be perfect.
You could tell it's a circle. It's really that simple.
In terms of metaphors increasing character, so here now these
circles have a little bit of faces.
The small circle is too small to draw a face on, so the
author made a little sign that says, "My name is Mike." So now here
we're having ways to identify differently who these two different objects are.
And in terms of the story, they made a short little
one-panel comic here that says, "Given the size of our difference, I feel like we'd
make an excellent comedy duo." "What?
Squish and Squash?" Because it's kind of drawn as an orange and an acorn, or a
squash and an acorn. It's like, "No, I think that's a little corny." So just kind
of pulling on what the imagery is using, but still done in a
very
simplistic way.So
I'll just add on that the reason why I also think comics are important is because
we are actually very much built for visual cues.
So here's an excerpt for one comic that I made about the connections
between HIV and cancer. So while I was in a cancer biology
graduate program, I actually studied HIV, which is associated with
cancer but does not cause it. But here, again, a very simple
structure. It's just a circle that I'm using to represent our T
cells, and I'm using things from our world that we
already know how to process. So on the top right, so in the
lavender panel, they have a stop sign.
It doesn't say stop, but we know that a red octagon is what we
use for traffic to know that that's a stop sign.
In the bottom left, they're wearing the little nurse hat, holding a pill, so kind
of showing how they can help and nurture
sick cells. And then in the final panel, the tan one, showing
how they can educate things, so having the chalkboard and being up
presenting. So things that we use in our world, but now I'm just applying it to
what the cell is that I've only just drawn as a circle.
In terms of the word size, also just the colors and the way that
we draw speech bubbles can relay a lot of information.
So here I've adapted from a web comic that I enjoy called
"Questionable Content," and even with me stripping out all of the words, you can
tell that there's drama and something happening.
So one of the panel, the background goes away. Now it's deep red.
There's spikiness for the panel, so likely the character
up here did something, and when you go back, now you can look at their facial
expressions. You see a little bit of blood on her finger because she
inappropriately touched her power tool because the intrusive thoughts won.
But we could still get all of that information even without any of the words there,
which I think makes comics incredibly powerful because now you have both the
narrative and the imagery that is helping push forward
our understanding. So what if you still don't want to draw?
Because I get that a lot. I've taught high schoolers and college students how to do
this. That's always a big thing. There's a lot of tools that we have out
there. So you can use PowerPoint, Google Drive, lots of things just to
make your real basic shapes in it. There's also BioRender that a lot of folks
are using for figures now. They have a lot there. Repurpose it.
It doesn't just have to be for your figures and your manuscripts.
You could use it for other things, too, especially if you have access.
You could also trace. That's a really great way of learning how to
draw figures. So when you're a child, a lot of times you're tracing
things out of books just to learn how shapes work.
Obviously, give credit if you're going to try and do a direct replica, because
copyright and trademarks do exist.
But most importantly, I think when it comes to making comics, you just
need to have fun with it. And then after that, it's
just a matter of practice and experimentation with what you
want to put on the page, which is just like science.
So that's me. If anyone has questions, again, you can come up.
Otherwise, I will pass it on
to our final of the trio.
Just a
tech thing. I'm going to start here, and then I'm going to go down with the other
mic. Okay.
So
look, AI
has such a range of who's using it and how we're using it,
so I just want to take a little poll just to know where we dig
in. One is your level. How many people
have been diving into AI for two years or
more?
Okay. One year?
Six months?
Haven't really gone deep?
Okay. And
what are you using it for? Are you using it for your
research? Just shake your head or no.
Yeah. Are you using it personally for your everyday life for
convenience? No.
Okay.
Are you using it to tell your story to either
funders or
just to get your research out there?
No. Okay, good. I just kind of wanted to know. Does anybody have a clone yet?
No? Okay, good. That helps. So
after coming to all these conferences, I've learned that
you probably take home a fraction and that we
never look in the notebook. But you do remember how
someone made you feel. And Kristen was talking about that, but
I'm going to actually rig this and make you feel.
Okay.
So
if you laugh, it oxygenates your brain, and it makes
you more creative, right? It just frees you to think more
openly. So we're just going to do a little laughter exercise, and that's
because my first chemo comedy party, my first chemo treatment,
I had everybody laughing for six hours, and that has gone to
millions of people on four continents and digitally all
seven continents. So put your hand over your mouth.
We're going to do a little head laugh. Hee hee. Ready?
Hee hee hee hee hee hee hee hee hee hee hee hee hee.
Is there a Persian person here?
No? No Per-- Yes. Does that sound like a Persian wedding?
It does. She said it. Okay. Put your hand on your chest.
This is a chest laugh. I said, sir, put your hand on your
chest, not her chest.
Could I get security? No, I'm just kidding. Put your hand on your chest.
Ha ha ha. If your own laugh takes over, go with it.
There's no laugh police at the back of the room that's going to go, "That's not
your real laugh." Okay, ready? Ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha
ha.Okay,
now you're going to stand up They're like, "Oh my God, I
came here because I'm too lazy to run
and I did not want to be doing exercise." Okay, stick out your stomach
Okay. And we're going to go, "Ho, ho, ho." Ready?
Ho, ho, ho, ho, ho, ho. Who didn't poop yet? Okay.
Tap your stomach. You will poop after this. Ready?
Ho, ho, ho,
ho, ho, ho, ho. This guy's going, "I thought this was AI." Like, what
is she doing? Okay, we're going to get started. Sit down.
Let me get this.
All right. Now you're awake. Now you're going to remember.
This isn't a clicker that I can take with me?
Okay.
Do you want me to click for you?
Yeah.
So here's my disclosure.
Guys, that's funny.
That's so funny. Can you imagine? You're all scientists.
I am a semi-scientist. I've done two studies that
presented here, actually. But I see that, and
you guys use point two font size, and it's
like, ba, ba, ba, and nobody can read it, and you click it really fast
because you don't want anyone to steal your funders.
So I said, "Let's make this funny." But can you
imagine if you're doing a talk and you have
permission to have a sense of humor?
You make a funny slide on your disclosure first.
Everybody will wake up, right?
Okay, so this is a real thing. How many
people have
artificial intelligence derangement syndrome right now?
It goes both ways, just so you know.
Being completely terrified that it's going to take your job and your
life, and also being obsessed. So
I'm obsessed with AI. Why? Because I wrote the
first study in AI and cancer
survivorship in 2019,
and I have been obsessed ever since. I presented it here after the pandemic.
Kristen, just keep going. Okay, so how many people
have FOMO?
I do, and I'm obsessed with it. I'm constantly trying to see what's
new, what's new, what's new. Keep going.
This is real.
I'm just trying to get us on the same page because everybody wants to do
this and nobody's talking about how it's making us
feel.
Did anybody read the MIT study
about the effects of AI on the brain?
So the biggest takeaway is you don't want to
go right to AI. No matter how
tempting it is to put every question you want to research
and everything you're doing and any problem you have in
life into a chatbot, don't do it,
because your brain turns off.
So you want to do all your creative thinking first,
and then if you want to go to a chatbot, do it.
But the study's pretty compelling.
So we're going to start with my AI serenity prayer.
We're going to read it out loud before I get started.
Ready? One, two, three.
AI gods, Anthropic, Google
Microsoft, OpenAI, Perplexity
Grant me the serenity to accept the things I cannot automate,
courage to change the things that I can prompt, and wisdom to know
when you are hallucinating. Amen. Okay.
All right. So why should you create a virtual
you?
Anybody, have you done it?
Do you want to do it?
Mm-hmm.
Yeah. I see some heads. So here's some
of the reasons. This is a day seminar,
and it's getting compressed to 20 minutes.
So I'm trying to give you the high-level overview, things that you can really
think about, and then give me 10 minutes a
day,
so you don't get overwhelmed. Take 10 minutes, put it in your schedule every
day to do one thing using artificial
intelligence. Ten minutes, that's it.
You will catch up.
Slowly, but you will catch up.
There are a lot of free courses online,
and
I can send you a list if you-- I'll give you my contact information.
But you can start doing free courses.
You don't have to pay $1,000 to do a Tony Robbins
course on artificial intelligence.
We can get you there online. Wait, wait. Go back.
Oh.
Oh, no.
That one? This one.
Next. Okay. So how many people, and be honest,
have put their name into ChatGPT
or Claude and just looked at what it said about you?
Anybody?
Two?
Three, four. Okay. So
two things. One, I did it,
and it loved me. I just want to say. My husband's
in the room, and I went running in and I went, "ChatGPT loves
me. It loves me." And I was so excited because
what's going to come up? You don't know.
So everybody-- Don't. Keep going.
No?
Everybody
needs to do this, and if you don't have a search
engine, then just borrow a friend's.
That's what I did the first time. Here's why.
Because you want to make sure that when everybody else
is searching you, that that picture of you drunk in your
sorority or fraternity party at 18 isn't the first thing
that's coming up, right? You want to control
your digital persona.And because
of the way search engines are created now,
you can rig the deck. It is so
incredible how, and we have product experts in
the room how you can manipulate the
search engine to tell the profile and the
story that you want to tell about you.
How many people have FAQs about
themselves
online? Nobody, right?
Number one way to appear as an authority
online is to create your FAQ.
Personal FAQ
and/or professional FAQ.
That simple,
because that's what the bots are looking for.
They're trying to find the authority, and
they're trying to find the most trusted
person, or product, or research
with your name. So if it's your research and you
want people to know about it, create an FAQ.
The next thing that you want to do is you want to be
cross-pollinated with another expert
or institution. So you want-- You
guys are buddies. I know you.
So you write a blog or
something. You write one, mention each other, quote each
other, and you're starting to build your level of
authority.
Seren, did you use AI to make this picture, I'm assuming?
Everything.
Because it has all the things that you want.
Of course.
Yeah.
I'm obsessed.
I know. Okay.
Oh, God.
Moving on.
So here's what I was talking about.
This is different from SEO, which is what Google,
you just used to pop in, and you would go, "Dog" and
"red," and then it would bring up images of dogs in
red.
Take every picture you want. Okay, now,
how many people have
studied the art of prompting on a chatbot?
I have a couple. Okay.
I tried to come up with acronyms, and these are some that are
floating around. There are so many more, but the key
to getting a better result using artificial
intelligence, using chatbots is
first, and Kristen talked about it, it's the persona,
right?
What
expert do you want? Who
do you want to conjure up? What information are you trying to get it
for, and for whom? So is this supposed to be for a
fifth-grade class? Is this supposed to be for
scientific experts? Right now, these
searches are operating at a PhD level, so you're
getting the help of a brain that's a PhD
level right now.
What is the request? What do you want it to do?
What goal do you want it to-- What do you want it to produce?
So you need to think of this before you actually get in there, because if you're on
a paid version, you're paying for each
moment that you're doing this. Every word in the search, you're getting
charged for using something called tokens.
So you want to
have really thought this through
and then let it help you.
Do you want it to produce a chart? Do you want it to produce a
graph? Do you want an essay? Do you want a blog?
Do you want Facebook posts? Do you want images?
The more you can define
what you want, the better the result will be.
And then once you get that result, people who are
new to AI, they're like, "Ooh, I got a result.
I'm going with that." No.
You have to really think about it, look at it, and
then re-prompt it. So that is a
critical stage in using these bots is that you
re-prompt, you redefine, you keep asking it.
And be polite, because it's trained to like when you're polite,
and it's going to suck up to you. That's how it's so addicting.
It's going to go, "Ooh, that was really smart." It's going to be
really flattering to you.
There's a way, in a more advanced way, that you say, "Don't flatter me."
Because every time it flatters you, if you're on a paid subscription, it's wasting
your tokens, and if you're on a free subscription, it's cutting down the searches
you can make. Okay, let's go.
This is really important, especially for
scientists. You want to make sure
that you're getting credible sources.
And even in that first prompt, I would say, if I put something in, I'll say,
a JAMA editor.
I want this to be something that JAMA would
approve. Right?
So this is just a way to further dig deeper
so that you're looking, is this hallucinating?
Is this giving me an answer that is not based
on anything in reality? It's just making this up.
Okay.
So your AI clone.
Does anybody want to create their AI clone?
I have people, no, yes. Yes. Okay.
So why would I do that?
And why would I do it with great precaution?
SoYour clone.
If English is not your first language
and you want help with your
pronunciation to be more clear,
you could use a clone for that. If you
want the audio portion of what you're talking
about to be more clear. If you want it to be
in another language,
you can use artificial intelligence to
translate what you're saying into many, many languages.
Now, the clone can be your voice, the clone
could be a video clone,
but it can also be a brain, right? And
that brain can help you with automation, things that are
daily tasks and routines that you
don't want to do in your life. So there's a lot of
interesting ways to work with cloning, and I just
wanted to bring that out. So why is this so important
for storytelling and talking about your research?
Because
you can tell it to make a listicle.
You can tell it to make graphs and charts, things that would take
so much longer. But your job as a scientist, as
a researcher, is to make sure that everything is
factually correct because it will distort.
It can really pervert images. You've put all your data
in, and yet it makes something that there'll
be lines that are off. So just because it's really smart, you
still have to be very careful. Now,
how many people have protocols where they
are on what they're allowed to put
research-wise into, say,
Gemini or any of the
Grok or Perplexity?
Who has a protocol? Just one. Two?
I am going to be honest. I have a separate computer
that has nothing on it except my search
engines.
Because I
work with so many ill people, and I don't want their data
anywhere near where I'm searching.
No matter how secure everybody tells me paid
versions are right now, I
personally think you can get through anything.
So you don't have to go that extreme, but if you want, they
sell computer notebooks very cheap right now, and you could
buy one just to go experiment. I think it's
$199 right now. You can get something to use
just to explore. But this is a huge
issue right now with security. Patients are just
throwing their medical records into search
engines and then going to their doctors, and they're not
redacting their names, their phone numbers, their emails,
and
this is open feeding season. So I want you to
experiment, and I want you to think about, wow, I
could really be telling what you're allowed to disclose from
your research story
by using a search.
Think about it first, put in your parameters what you're allowed
to put forth to the public. A lot of universities, you have to get permission
first. And then play around with all the
elements that they said. You could have a cartoon
created
just by putting that into a prompt.
You could say what you want to teach.
I want to teach about cancer and HIV and cancer.
And you could give it the specifics of what you want to teach
and then ask for a graphic and refine.
Do I have time to do something?
I have no idea what time it is. Does anyone know?
Yeah, I have time.
Okay.
Okay, so take a picture of that if you need to connect with me,
and then I'm going to play a video for you.
I think you have to hit it once and then hit it again.
Yeah, I'm just making sure everyone gets their picture.
All right. We're going to sing. How many people know "Old MacDonald
Had a Farm?" Okay. Old MacDonald had a farm.
Okay, so it's karaoke. The words are going to appear.
Ready?
And I hit it.
Happy.
Wow.
There
we go, right? Oh,
my
God.
Don't
sit
down.
Don't do one more laugh.
Because you're going to see me in the hall, and you're not going to remember
anything I said, but you're going to go, "That was the lady that made me laugh."
Okay. Put your hands in the air.
Wave them like you just don't care.
Thank you for raising. We have raisers in the room.
Now, we're going to do a rollercoaster laugh. We're going to do it two times.
If your own laugh takes over, go with it.
Don't hit yourself on the chair, but we have a lot of doctors if you do
hit your head. Are you ready? Ha ha ha ha
ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha.
Woo! One more. Ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha.
Woo! Give yourselves a round of applause.
That's storytelling with AI.
All right. Does anyone have any questions or- Let me put it back ...
comments, or
need help with anything?
Does anyone want to be a guinea pig, and we'll see if your research-
Yeah ... or story, and we'll triple turn it into content?
Oh.
I would love to be a guinea pig, but I also had a quick question,
or maybe not so quick question. But my question was,
so with the use of AI everywhere, more and more times,
there's NIH review panels that are starting to put their grants
that they receive into these AI programs.
And of course, NI--
Oh, sorry, sorry.
Thank you. So,
I want to know your thoughts on how can we
improve on, I guess, grant writing, because a lot of the
applications nowadays are... We're getting a lot of assistance with
these AI platforms, and vice versa.
Reviewers are also getting a lot of assistance with these same AI platforms when
it comes to reviewing multiple grants.
How can we
look past AI without it
compromising our critical thinking abilities?
So that's a great question, and I want to say, first of all, AI
is the greatest plagiarizer.
So there's actually a tool
that universities are using to put papers through
to see if they were plagiarized using AI.
So first thing, as I said-- What is your name?
Oh, Amy Leslie from Stanford.
Hi, Amy. So the first thing is,
you want to think first, and that's the first thing I started with the MIT
study. You want to do critical thinking first and
really have a position.
AI will be your best friend. If you're on a
closed system and your university has said, "This is safe.
We're on a closed system," you can use it.
If you're using your own home version and that has not been
published or posted, just remember,
each one of these
companies is training on us.
Every prompt you put in, they are training on us.
So if you don't want the world being trained, then be
careful what system you're using.
The next thing is,
you can literally say, "I want a 10-page
grant document or 100-page grant document."
Feed in everything that you want in that
document. PDFs. Now, it most prefers to
read
something that's a modified code, but you don't have to.
You can use natural language. And then the thing that it likes less
is image or PDF. But it will still read it all.
But it could hallucinate a little.
So anything you want in that grant document.
It could be 200 pages.
Just know that you're going to be using tokens. It's going to cost you money.
So you want to get it as far along as you can, because every time you
iterate,
the register's going.
Everything you want in there. And then you give it, as I
wrote up the prompt, you say, "I want to write this for an NIH
grant. I want it to be written at a PhD level," or,
"I want it at a fifth-grade level." Whatever you want.
"I want
sentences
to be short and definitive." You
tell it exactly as you want it
done, line by line. You just make it--
And don't use excessive words, like 1,000 ands.
You can literally just put word, comma, word, word, word,
word, word. It will figure it out. You don't have to have it
flowery. Just very direct.
It will blow your mind. It might work for
20 minutes. It depends how complicated this is.
But you will get back something that's crazy.
And then you say to it,
or you could put this in the first prompt even, "I want you to
fact-check this and give me every
citation that you are using."
So just really use it as your brain partner.
It will blow you away. And if you don't like the grant it
creates, then ask it to fix...
whatever it is, say, "No, I want this in a
table. I want this in bullet points.
I want this." I think it's been a miracle for grant
proposals if you're allowed to put the information in.
Does that help?
That helps immensely. Can I ask one more very small question?
Of course.
What's your favorite AI platform?
You might have more than one favorite, but what's your ultimate favorite?
And then, a top runner after.
So, I made this joke at a different conference.
I am
search fluid.
I am trans search, and that's true.
There are positives and
negatives for each one. But I have to tell you,
it's fun. If you like horse racing, this is what this is
like, because one day, Anthropic will come out
with something on Claude, and then the next day,
OpenAI will come out with something for ChatGPT, and then the next
day. And it's like every day, it's like...
Oh my gosh.
Can I say this joke?
Okay. It's like guys with cars.
Like who has the biggest car, right?
Can you strike that from the...
I was trying to be so clean. It's 9:00 in the morning.
But it changes every minute, and that's why I have
artificial intelligence derangement syndrome, because I'm really
playing. But I don't
think I will ever just use one search, ever.
I just don't. And what you can do is put the same
thing in two of them and see what you
get back. Now, Perplexity is
supposed to be deeper for research and
scientists. And then there's OpenEvidence, which I can't get in because I'm
not a medical professional. But
now they're coming out, like Chat has Chat
Health.
It's insane. I don't sleep. My husband's here.
I'm literally 24 hours a day, trying stuff out.
But really, that's why I made all the jokes about AI panic
attacks. Just do 10 minutes a day and play.
I have two, sorry, two quick
things to add there. One is this is so important to
know right now. I'm a part of this FNIH
Roadmap to Cancer Vaccines, and we're trying to include
the AI companies because they have such an important
voice right now in how discovery is done and
where we're going. And then just a warning on that, a quick, funny
story. So I just started this role at Parker Institute,
and I was like, "Oh, my headshots are so old.
I don't have anything." And they needed a high-res thing.
So I decided I had gotten this ad to make
your Insta headshots and put in a couple of old pictures
and thought they would just put me in a suit.
You look hot.
Thank you.
I saw it.
Thank you. Well, you-
I was like, "That is some AI hot going on."
You clearly didn't zoom in because I sent it out,
and then I'm looking, and I'm like, "Oh, that hand is kind of..."
Not that I have the most feminine hands, but it looked a little manly to me.
And then I'm like, "Oh, what necklace did they put me in?" And I zoom in and
there's literally chest hair.
Because of the sha-- I reached out to the company.
I'm like, "What?" And they said, "Well, sometimes it hallucinates
because of the shadows or something." So this image is
going out and I'm like, "Whoa, please zoom.
Crop it a little bit." So you'll notice it's very cropped to take out the chest
hair, but probably somewhere on the internet is a picture of me
with chest hair that I will live to regret.
But you do need to be careful and look very closely at the things that you're
putting out that are AI-generated.
So I'm doing another talk here
with AI, and
I asked for a picture of... I
was very specific because I like to use a lot-- If you saw, my
slides are very diverse. I
really take time to make sure. And we got
one of a man in a hospital gown, and I
looked down, and
you could see something in that hospital gown, and I was
like, some programmer somewhere thought that it would be really
funny to all of a sudden have an appendage in my
picture with the man with a hospital gown on.
So that's exactly right. That's two
references I made in about three minutes.
That's really bad. Anybody else? Or yeah, this man.
It's Dr. Gardner, or I guess, actually, first
question is for Dr. Gardner. And sorry if I
didn't hear you, but in terms of how you're generating
the comic relief type of messages you
have, what platforms are you using?
And then are you using AI? The other
consideration is around getting that type
of information to the right people, right?
We can build these platforms, and we can build
the
communique, but if it doesn't get to the right people, then it
doesn't benefit you at all. And so,
what type of platforms are you using
to get it to the right people, right?
To get the right scientific message out
to the right individuals?
Yeah, great question. Thanks.
So in terms of what do I use for making comics, I actually
use Adobe Illustrator. So the things that I was learning when I was a
graduate student to make the figures for my paper, I would just
use those same skills, but to learn it.
So kind of something that AI can do now.
So I don't personally use
AI, but a lot of things that I did, especially when I was learning Illustrator, and
there are also free versions of these programs out there now that can do the same
thing, is that I used YouTube to
ask very specific questions. So this kind of just sounds like writing a prompt for
AI, right? So
I would go into YouTube and say, "How do I draw a mountain in Illustrator?"
And then I would follow step by step, because that was a lot easier
to have an outcome that I was trying to create, as opposed to
say, "Teach me how to use this program," and then it tells me all the different
buttons, and there's no way for me to remember it.
So I kind of learned what the program can do by
having concrete things that I was creating.
And the first things that I made are ugly, so I just kept
practicing, and I'm just okay with having my ugly babies out there.
In terms of the messaging, and
like how to get it out there, I think that's really, really important.
So part of it is,
in addition to doing science communication, I also do a lot of
outreach. So as a grad student, we had a monthly
outreach event that I took part in, and I would print out comics so I
can disseminate it into the UW Madison
community. So this was intentional for community members, so not people that
are at the university. And so even just seeing
that, I would ask folks if they knew about this research existed at
the university, and most of them said no, even though the university is right in
their backyard. So that was a way to do it.
So I have my own website that I put things up for free, so
kind of still removing that paywall.
I do a lot of outreach. I have a lot of word of mouth.
Social media was also a thing. Science Twitter was really great
until it turned into an absolute cesspool.
But because of that, a lot of people know me for this work now
that I have connections and I can pull things both ways
from either my scientific expertise when I'm invited for a talk
and I said, "Hey, do you actually have any educational programming?
I can also do something here." Or vice versa.
If they're bringing me in to teach about grant writing to their postdocs
or something, I can also pull to get a scientific talk or things in both
ways. So I basically use my network a lot.
I'm going to be a very interesting tenure case for my institution, but I like it.
So
I kind of just use everything at your
disposal as I think how you can help what you're creating
find the people, and then it's also just kind of having
that drive and momentum to keep it going.
I was going to ask Seren to weigh in too, because your podcast,
with no marketing, has now reached how many countries?
144.
144 countries.
It's been listened to on every continent.
So
what have you done to get the word out there about it?
Thank you for the plug, Kristen. I was going to say, I have a
shameless plug, I have to say. So I did these
two research studies. Well, let me go back to one thing
for you, sir. What's your name?
Tamaro Metz.
Say it?
Nice to meet you.
Tamaro Metz.
So first of all,
I said it early on,
you want to get recognized,
build your FAQ. Right?
Start partnering with someone where you quote, right?
And
old time Facebook and Instagram
is really interesting because you can
literally get into somebody's chat under their
picture or under their post and start
posting comments that are relevant to what their research
is. And if you have something that's relevant to them,
like somebody that's a mentor or somebody that's in your field,
you want to start associating yourself with thought
leaders who are interested in what you're doing.
This is another way to build your presence.
But just in terms of,
for example, the AI study that I wrote,
I wrote a press release. Now, you could literally
take what you want to write a press release about, put it
into the search engine, and say, "Write a
press release with a
five-word headline,"
or five to seven-word headline, because the shorter your
header is on a press release, the more
favored it is. And then say, "And I want a
subheader that's no longer than this." Right?
"I want it at a fifth-grade level," because that's what
press releases are written at, right?
And then you could say, "Write it in the style of
a PR Newswire award-winning press
release." Right?
400 words or less, because that's a cheaper price
point than if you go higher.
There's a big jump in price if you go higher.
And then you can put in, "I want this to be my boilerplate."
Boilerplate is the thing at the very bottom that talks about
you or your company or your idea,
like who's releasing it. And then in the
middle say, "I want
five bullet points."
extracting the information from here because press releases
love bullet points, right? And then
put in two or three quotes because press releases love
quotes. That AI study had
over 300 million impressions,
and PR Newswire called me and said: "Can we
talk to you? We want to know who's writing your press releases." This was
before AI, because my press releases were ranking
beyond any institution. They were in the highest stratosphere
of success. And I just was writing them
myself. But like anything, I researched how to
write the greatest press release of all time.
I just did it before chat. But my gosh,
you could put it in chat, and then
something a little more sophisticated that I didn't
say is you could create a skill, meaning you could
create a document that is everything
that's about what you like and don't like.
I like three-syllable words.
I never use these words. Right?
Always refer to me as she/her. Right?
Principles of what should be always used
when you're writing social posts or when you're writing
research. You could create, here's the research skill,
here's the press release skill, here's the post skill,
here's the skill that I like to write about on LinkedIn because I
like to be more professional. And then you set up a
file, literally a file. And then every
time you're writing something, you can either, if you
haven't figured out automation, you could say it to grab
that skill so you don't have to rewrite that
whole thing again about you every time you want to create a
post or every time. And then the other thing I was going to say is
to get it to the right people.
Get it to the right people. I am fearless.
I don't care what degree you have, how much money you
have, what position you have. If you have something that can
truly serve someone, I believe that cream
rises to the top and that you should go for
your top 10 list. Who are the top 10 people that need to know
about your research? And be pleasantly persistent.
And I think
I was born that way, but being a Stage 4 survivor
of cancer,
I feel invincible. I feel superhero
fearless. And Kristen knows that I am
just shameless. I don't care who it is.
If I think that I can serve and my information can serve, I
do it.
Thank you all so much for such a great session.
It's been really entertaining and fascinating. My name's Cody Wolfe.
I'm a postdoc at the University of Virginia, and my question's geared towards Dr.
Gardner, but I'd love to hear the rest of the panel as well.
There's a massive interest, I think, in early career scientists becoming better
science communicators as a whole, especially at the postdoc level and
grad school level. But even though my mentors have been
very accepting and excited about my interest in science communication
as a whole, I still get nervous about when I apply for tenure track
and I'm told, "It's not really that exciting that you did all the science
communication stuff when your papers aren't as impactful as maybe they could've
been." And so I'm wondering how we can change the culture at our
level so that we make it more competitive at tenure track
to say, "I did all the science communication work, and it's valid to put in my
tenure track application or in my industry job, or when I go and work for
government," et cetera. What can we do to improve that
regime that we have currently in academia?
That is a very great question, a very loaded question.
So I'm not going to have a direct answer for you, but what I can say is
that I do think that that culture is changing.
So when I was towards the end of my PhD, for a
very succinct story, we had a speaker come give a
seminar. I had lunch with them with other grad students.
Went around the table, said what all of us wanted to do afterwards, and he picked
on me because I was the most senior grad student, and I said that I wanted to be a
PI, and there was an audible gasp from all of the students
around the world because already the idea of continuing on into
academia had changed. So it was already that shift of the alternative
careers. I hate that word. It's just a career.
But
all of that is to say, if you're applying to a place that doesn't value the things
that you value, do you actually want to work there?
So that was kind of my mindset when I went on the job market.
I didn't hide anything. When I applied for my postdoc, I didn't hide
anything. It's also hard because I have a very visible
online presence. I am somehow the only person with
my name, so J with an E and Gardner with an I is apparently a unique
combination, so that if you search me, you will only find me.
And so because of that,
I just take pride in what I do, and so I never want to hide it.
And if people don't want to accept me for who I am, I don't want to be there.
But that's also a little bit of my personality aspect.
I know that that's hard and not everyone can do that.
But for me, applying for faculty positions, I
wanted to be in a space that I could have these be more
combined for one job instead of feeling like I'm a scientist by day,
illustrator by night, and then on weekends I'm doing outreach, and then I'm also
trying to teach in this high school program.
I wanted it to be one combined job. So me coming
to Tufts and having sort of the R1 but also the
small liberal arts feel, which is what I had for college, versus having
SMFA, so the School Museum of Fine Arts, or having this really robust arts
program and also a large comic scene in Boston just
made the most sense for me. And so I was really excited to have that
opportunity for a position. So I just kind of looked
For places that fit what my values
were and tried for it,
I can certainly say I'm on the side of maybe
my stuff isn't as developed. So, I got a K99.
I didn't have any of my post-doc papers published yet.
Technically, still don't. Also have a faculty position, but it's because I tried,
and I didn't self-eliminate for any of those things.
But I think because of that cultural shift that is already happening, the
people that are in positions now that would
be doing the hiring for you are probably already more
holistic in what they think this job can be.
So I wouldn't be as worried about it now.
Did you say your name's Cody? Did you present a
poster
on-
He was on the panel with me last year.
Oh, he was on the panel. Because I recognized your face, and I
was like, "How do I... I saw you before." Oh, panel.
Yeah. No, I was just going to encourage you.
Obviously, we were on this panel on communicating science last year, but we were
there with Dr. Bertagnolli and Dr. Rathmell.
And a couple of things. As a cancer
patient,
I appreciate the system, but
papers don't get to patients. And so please
stay on the path you're doing about making sure that
people are aware. And then the other thing I would say is, look, I'm a
journalist, and I'm a co-chair of this entire
meeting. So voices like ours are being
included in this.
I was picked, and I went to this meeting in Philadelphia
to talk about what everyone would talk about at AACR.
I was there with Dr. Littai and all these people that
value that there is more and that we need to also
be making sure that the research gets to people.
So I think, like Dr. Gardner said, find the
place that allows you to do that,
and also reach out because I'm happy to help you in any way with making
connections, because I think your voice is so important, Cody.
And I don't want to embarrass you, but I want a little inventory.
So going down a checklist, and you might say I'm not
allowed to do this. Do you have a podcast?
I used to.
Okay. Are you not allowed?
Am I not allowed to have a podcast?
Yeah.
No, I'm allowed.
Okay. Do you have a Substack or a
blog somewhere?
No.
Okay.
How often do you post a week?
Probably three times a week.
Okay. Do you have FAQs and do you have
a website, or what are you using? LinkedIn?
Tell me what you're doing.
Yeah. I
have a website that is kind of like a new nonprofit group that's
starting. So with that, not an FAQ, and then LinkedIn.
I have a LinkedIn page that I-
Are you posting videos on YouTube?
No.
Okay. Reels?
Okay. Have you gone live on LinkedIn?
Yes.
Okay. I'm not picking on you. What I'm saying is, by the
end of this weekend,
I could make a social imprint for
you that is
world-class. You would be getting recognized.
You would start churning visibility.
But you also have to offer
something.
That's the quickest way. So anybody in this room
could, within a day, make a
free e-book
on any topic that you're an expert on that you want to communicate to
patients. You could literally say in a search engine,
"Create me a 10-page e-book
that is this size, this..." And make a digital e-book
that you give away to patients communicating
anything. So just back to what Kristen said, "Beating
Cancer Daily" is the podcast. And it came out
because patients asked me to keep teaching them, and they
wanted it daily, seven days a week.
And I did it. We're at 421 original daily
episodes, but I've never used AI once.
It's where I drew the line,
professionally and creatively, that not one
episode would be generated by artificial
intelligence. It is truly 421
strategies to live your best life
after being diagnosed with cancer.
So,
that was another shameless plug, but it's just
content is king. So what happened?
Within minutes, we unseated Sloan Kettering as top
cancer podcast in the world. So
Hopkins is ahead of me, but Sloan, where I had two surgeries,
is behind me in the top five list. We
then were recognized as number one cancer survivor
podcast in the world. And then we were just
named a top 10 finalist Best Health
Series People's Choice Podcast Awards
for Best Health Series top 10 finalist.
Not one aspect of paid marketing or
advertising. It's just that we showed up
online. This podcast showed up online so much with
valuable content every day. So I hope
that helps inspire you to really start
sharing your brilliance with the world.
Hi. Thank you so much for this session. I'm Susan Manber.
I'm here as part of the Scientists and Survivors program.
Woo-hoo.
Patient advocate and survivor. And so my question for you is, you've
said patients don't get papers. How do you think we
should be partnering scientists with patients so that they do
get the information in a useful way that will drive better outcomes?
You want to go, Kristen?
I think you laid out one option is to do an e-book.
I think it's important to recognize that there are different
audiences for anything. So you've all figured out how to get your papers
published and how to reach institutions and scientists,
but having it behind paywalls and having it be too
dense for people to read, it's really hard.
And so you need to find those ways
that Sarin, I think, just laid out, like podcasts reach people,
and Substacks and posts and Instagram.
And
what we do in helping to
promote research,
but also knowing who our audience is.
So posting on Instagram,
very colorful, simple quotes or
take out those pieces of the study that
will appeal and have patients connecting
with it
is so important. And it might not seem that important because your
institution is telling you, "You need to publish this to get
tenure," and there is that pressure, and this seems like it would take
extra time. But I think today we've heard some really great options for using
AI to optimize that.
I want to jump on something you said.
So the one-hour and the 90-minute talk,
they're dead.
Don't do that online. They're dead.
Nobody has time or patience to do this.
If I were a world-class researcher,
I am a little baby researcher for two studies, but if I were you,
I would literally take my research that I'm
allowed to talk about and I would chop it up
into one to three-minute soundbites.
Teach one aspect of this. And I would show up,
you make your camera like this
if you want to be on Instagram Reels or
on YouTube.
If you want it for permanent, you go this way.
If you want it for
their Shorts, you go this way. But the thing is that
you just make
micro-moments
and be excited and
speak in real language about it. Everything that they taught,
use that, but share your research.
And there's scheduling tools so that you don't
have to, again, you could use AI automation, but there are scheduling
tools. You could pay a few bucks every month and
schedule out a whole month of content. We use Later.
We haven't moved it to a workflow yet, but we use Later, and
I post three times a day. I post a
joke every day. I post an audiogram, which
is just a quick audio soundbite from an
episode that's going up today. And then we
post a title card of what the episode is.
And that's just done, and then it's programmed a month in
advance, and that just keeps hitting all of
the internet. Now we have a slightly different strategy because of
AI. But just get started. Use your
iPhone. Say one cool thing. You can have it on a stand, or you can
hold it and just go, "Wow, I was just in the lab,"
and blah, blah, blah. And just
say what you're allowed to say, but show up.
And then you could say, "If you want to learn more about my
research,"
and you can actually have in the header,
"Anybody that's a geek about CRISPR,"
or "Funders who are geeks about CRISPR."
Tell it, because then the search, somebody that types
in, "I want to fund a CRISPR project," your
one-minute video could show up, right?
Thank you so much. She's a ringer, everybody.
She was head of
major PR health firm
in the world and did many of the most successful health
campaigns in the world, so
especially in cancer.
So hi, thank you for the panel. I really enjoyed it.
Sarin actually just addressed a lot of the topics that I'm just going to bring up,
but this was originally directed for Kristen.
So I loved your checklist of things to go off of when you're
making up a story, but I was wondering how that would change or be
different when you're working with the shortest of shortest soundbites.
So for some context, I work with a group that does Twitch
platform-based fundraising, and AACR is one of the places that we fundraise for.
And so while we're doing this, we try to do 10 to 15-second
pitches every hour, half hour or so.
Mm-hmm.
I find it really difficult to try to get the most important information down into
that really, really quick soundbite.
So I wonder if you have any
suggestions.
So soundbites from
who or-
Oh, just like as we're-
A little idea
... yeah, as we're on Twitch playing the video games.
Yeah.
Just giving a little pitch of like, "Hi, this is," the group name.
"We're Rupee Krew. We're raising money for AACR." And then we kind of draw a blank
on the best way to explain why we're doing what we're doing
in such a short amount of time.
Yeah. I think,
any of this, you just chunk. You're not going to be able to tell the whole thing.
And also, I wanted to point out, Sarin always makes me feel like such an
underachiever because she doesn't sleep, and she's like, "I posted 8,000 things
today." But
it's okay to do little posts and build your way
upFor finding, it's again, just finding that heart
or finding what do people care about.
So AACR,
oldest scientific research organization,
or has this many
things, or these are the highlights of what came out of the meeting.
So let's look at everything that's happened
or is going to happen over the next few days, and then pull out
those little pieces that you think people would be interested in.
So, oh my gosh, there's this amazing advance in pancreatic
cancer, which
people know is one of the worst diagnoses that you can get.
But look at this research that's helping, and try and really find
how does that help patients? How does that give you or I or
Sally in Kansas hope?
And then, yeah, that's just one little nugget that you're going to pull
out that people will care about. Does that help at
all?
I think so, to an extent, yeah.
Yeah. I mean, it's hard to tell what-
It's hard to... Because this is-
Give me an example of-
This isn't exactly something that would be posted that necessarily people would
go back and see or hear more. It's just while we're live
on stream,
as people are coming in or leaving or going out of the Twitch stream.
Just giving the
purpose of what we're doing in a very, very succinct sort
of manner.
So wait, I missed one piece. Are you allowed to have guests on the
Twitch or you're not?
No.
So it's just you?
So it is the group of people. I am kind of the AACR rep-
Okay
... because I am a cancer researcher and doing it.
But no, we
can't invite patients or-
You're visual.
Yes.
Okay. So I am a huge props
person.
Here comes the cheese head.
So
I didn't
use it, but I walk with props. I just do.
I have more in the bag. But I would just be like this and be like,
"Oh my gosh,
we just heard that we cured pancreatic cancer.
This is incredible." Blah, blah, blah.
You see what I'm saying?
Everybody expects a talking head.
Mm-hmm.
But break. And then here's another
trick.
If I can find
it.
Sarah, just take the whole bag out. Let's see what's in there.
Yeah, I know. Mary Poppins bag of props.
Well, no. I would take bubbles. I
travel with bubbles. And so I'll be in an elevator, and it's just
like, I'll just start blowing bubbles in the elevator, and people are
just like, "What's happening?" Then everybody just starts laughing, right?
Take out a bubble wand and blow some bubbles and just be like, "Magic is
happening at this conference." Loosen up, use some humor.
They say that I bring the funny to
healthcare, right? That's my role, at any conference or
whatever. And, I think it's underused
in the scientific platform, and it's the element of
surprise, right? So any time you have a new
concept, or just have some funny hats.
Or lean in and just go, "You are
not going to believe what just happened
here. Come here."
And then also, yeah, you can't have patients on, but get a quote from
somebody, or, "This person told
me that this changed their life in this way and this
way." And that's a really powerful thing to have.
Okay. Thank you.
You're welcome. I think time is up. Thank you all for spending time with us.
You can certainly reach out to any of us with questions, follow-ups.
If we can help you in any way, we absolutely want to.
So thanks for joining.